# 04-1 Running the code

Here we will discuss how to run and edit the code. 
In this section we will discuss the input file `settings.input`. 
This is read in by the moudle `reader.f90` and the relevent inputs shared with the rest of the code.

We will refer to the equation:

$$\frac{\partial u }{\partial t} = \epsilon \left(\frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2} + \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2} \right) + F(u,v),
\quad 
 \frac{\partial v }{\partial t}=  \left(\frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial x^2}+ \frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial y^2} \right) + G(u,v), $$
 

### `settings.input` Explaination

This first section is:
```
Settings ________________
1           !!! Time_switch (time marching if 1)
1           !!! Non_Linear_switch (non linear if 1)
2           !!! Eqn_number
2           !!! Domain_number
```
 - `Time_switch` turns the solver from a BVP solver when 0 and a IBVP solver when 1.
   When we have a BVP, this is equivalent to setting the time derivatives $\frac{\partial u}{\partial t} = 1$ and $\frac{\partial v}{\partial t} = 1$.
 - `Non_Linear_switch` turns the the Newton-iteration solver off when it is 0 and on when it is 1.
   The equation that we solve when the `Non_Linear_switch` is 0 is linear and so $F(u,v) = G(u,v) =0.$
 - `Eqn_number` sets how many equations to solve. If 1 then we just solve for $u$ and if 2 we solve for both $u$ and $v$.
 - `Domain_number` sets the number of domains. If 1 then we just solve with a domain of $x$ and if 2 we solve with domains $x$ and $y$.

Domain sections:
```
!!! xdomain settings_____
30 					  !!! nx - size of x domain
0,5			    !!! xl, xr - start and end points of x domain
0,2.25    !!! x_strech_on or off, grid strech parameter (xhalf)

!!! ydomain settings_____
30        !!! ny - size of y domain
0,5       !!! yl, yr - start and end points of y domain
0,2.25    !!! y_strech_on or off, grid strech parameter (yhalf)

!!! temportal marching settings_____
1000              !!! nt - size of t domain
0.d0,10.d0        !!! tl, tr - start and end points of time domain
```
Here we set the sizes of the domains. 
- `nx`, `ny` and `nt` set the number of points inside each domain. 
- `xl` and `xr` are the start and end of the $x$ domain respectively. This is repeated for $y$ and $t$.
- For the spatial domains $x$ and $y$ we also include a grid strech switch `x_strech_on` and `y_strech_on`.
  When set to 0 then we have uniform domains. However when set to 1 we cluster half of the gird points between `xl` and `xhalf` in a smooth way, with the same for $y$.

```
!!! general settings_____
4   			    	!!! DiffOrder - order of finite differences scheme
1.d-6       !!! Newton_Error
2000        !!! Max_iter - max Newton iterations
```
 - `DiffOrder` sets the order of the finite differences. Can be 2 (second order), 3 (fourth order interior and second order boundaries) or $4$ (fourth order).
 - `Newton_Error` sets the tolerance needed to finish the non-linear Newton iteration at each step. Small number gets a more accurate result.
 - `Max_iter` sets the maximum number of iterations allowed for the non-liner Newton iteration. If we pass this number, converegence is not reached and the solver stops.
