# 04-2 Running the code

In this section we will discuss how the equations are set in the file `equations/definitions.f90`.
Depending on the settings set in `settings.input`, different subroutines will be called.



### [`equations/definitions.f90`](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE-Solving-Singular-PDEs-in-Fortran/blob/main/solver/src/equations/definitions.f90) Explaination

The first subroutine to consider is `equation1_linear`. It sets up terms of the linear equation:

$$ A_x(x,y) \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2} + B_x(x,y) \frac{\partial u}{\partial x } + A_y(x,y) \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial y^2} + B_y(x,y) \frac{\partial u}{\partial y } + C(x,y) u = D(x,y) \frac{\partial u }{\partial t}$$

This is subroutine will always called regardless of `Eqn_number` being 1 or 2; if this value is set to 2 then `equation2_linear` will also be called. The subroutine `equation2_linear` is exactly the same but solves for $v$ rather than $u$.
`Ax`, `Bx`, `C` and `D` will always be set. `Ay` and `By` will only be set if `Domain_number` is 2.

The next important subroutine `equation1_BC_X_Bot` is a boundary condition and is identical in form to the subroutine above. 
However it is only called when $x$ is at the lower boundary `xl`. 
There are four boundary condition subroutines for each equation: 

   For $u$: 
   - `equation1_BC_X_Bot` and `equation1_BC_X_Top` are always called and provide conditions for the `xl` and `xr` boundaries, respectively
   - `equation1_BC_Y_Bot` and `equation1_BC_Y_Top` are only called when `Domain_number` is 2, and provide conditions for the `yl` and `yr` boundaries, respectively
   For $v$ (only called when `Eqn_number` is 2):
   - `equation2_BC_X_Bot` and `equation2_BC_X_Top` are always called and provide conditions for the `xl` and `xr` boundaries, respectively
   - `equation2_BC_Y_Bot` and `equation2_BC_Y_Top` are only called when `Domain_number` is 2, and provide conditions for the `yl` and `yr` boundaries, respectively
   

When `Time_switch` is 1, the subroutine `equation1_initial_condition` is called to set the initial condition. There is a similar subroutine for $v$ that is called if `Eqn_number` is 2.

When `Non_linear` is 1, the subroutine `equation1_non_linear` is called to set the non-linear terms. There is a similar subroutine for $v$ that is called if `Eqn_number` is 2.
If `Eqn_number` is 1 then only `F` and `Fu` are called.
If `Eqn_number` is 2 then `F`, `Fu` and `Fv` are called.
