# 06. Breaking up the problem

The first step in building any PDE solver is to break the problem down into manageable steps. By breaking down a PDE solver into these steps, the overall process becomes more structured, efficient, and easier to understand. It also facilitates debugging, optimization, and extension. Here, we will break our problem down into its core steps and briefly discuss the techniques used in each step. These steps also form the most important modules in the solver.


Consider the equation discussed in [1.theory.md](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE-Solving-Singular-PDEs-in-Fortran/blob/2-documentation-set-up/notebooks/1.theory.md), 
namely
$$\frac{\partial u }{\partial t} = \epsilon \left(\frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2} + \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2} \right) + F(u,v),
\quad 
 \frac{\partial v }{\partial t}=  \left(\frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial x^2}+ \frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial y^2} \right) + G(u,v), $$
then we can break this equation down into more managable steps.


  - ### Step 1:
    In one spatial dimension $x$, consider the boundary value problem (BVP) with solution $u(x)$: 
        $$A(x) \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2}+B(x) \frac{\partial u}{\partial x}+C(x) u  = D(x) $$
    Where $A(x), B(x), C(x)$ and $D(x)$ are functions. Supplemented with Dirichlet or Neumann bounary conditions.
We will solve this problem by discretising the equation using [finite differences](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite_difference_method) to turn the differential equation into an algebraic one with matrices.
    This will involve inverting a matrix which we will achieve with the linear algerba package [LAPACK](https://www.netlib.org/lapack/).
    Solving such equations are described in [this](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE_Diffusion_Code/blob/main/docs/1-numerics.md) examplar, but we will list the important steps here:
  
  1. Preproscessing:
     - Using `reader.f90` we read in the specified input data from a file called `settings.input`
     - Using `domain.f90` we build the uniform computational grids for the problem
     - With `equations/definitions.f90` we then specify the equations we are solving, with boundary conditions
  2. Discretisation:
     - In `equations.f90`, specifically the subroutine `build_the_matrix` the problem is then spatially discretised into discrete algebraic equations using finite differences
     - Both the left and right hand side of the equation above need to be asssembled, including any boundary conditions
     - The equation is discretised in a banded form. This is due to the fact that most of the matrix entrities will be zero when finite differeneces are used. Again refer to this [exemplar](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE_Diffusion_Code/blob/main/docs/6-sparse-storage.md) for more details.
  3. Solution:
     - We then solve the problem in the module `solve_bvp.f90` by calling on the LAPACK linear solver defined in `Newtons_method.f90`
     - This solving a system of algebraic equations
  4. The solution is then outputted to a data file called `BVP.dat`     


  - ### Step 2:
    We then consider the effect of multiplying the second derivative by a small parameter:
        $$\epsilon A(x) \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2}+B(x) \frac{\partial u}{\partial x}+C(x) u  = D(x).$$
One of the correct methods of discretising such a problem is with grid streching; where more points are clustered near the boundary where the singularity lives. The mathematics of this and how this is implemented will be discussed in [9.nonuniform_domain.md](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE-Solving-Singular-PDEs-in-Fortran/blob/2-documentation-set-up/notebooks/9.nonuniform_domain.md).

    This is all dealt in the module `domain.f90`. We emphasise that to construct a new domain all that needs to be specified in the subroutine `set_up_domain` in `domain.f90` are the domains boundaries, number of discretised points and the grid streching settings. It is therefore easy to define multiple domains if needed.  

  - ### Step 3:
    We then add in the non-linearities, by including the non-linear function $F$:
       $$\epsilon A(x) \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2}+B(x) \frac{\partial u}{\partial x}+C(x) u + F(u) = D(x). $$
    This is solved via Newton-Iteration, discussed in [10.newton_iteration.md](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE-Solving-Singular-PDEs-in-Fortran/blob/2-documentation-set-up/notebooks/10.newton_iteration.md).

    This is achieved in the module `Newtons_method.f90` and additionally in the subroutine `non_linear_setup` in the module `equations.f90`.

- ### Step 4:
  We then add a second equation for $v$:
       $$\epsilon A_1(x) \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2}+B_1(x) \frac{\partial u}{\partial x}+C_1(x) u + F(u,v) = D_1(x), \quad  A_2(x) \frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial x^2}+B_2(x) \frac{\partial v}{\partial x}+C_2(x) u + G(u,v) = D_2(x). $$ This is easy to implement with finite differences: if our discretised solution was originally $u = (u(x_1),u(x_2),...,u(x_n))$ then the new discretised solution gets written in the form $u = (u(x_1),v(x_1),u(x_2),v(x_2),...,u(x_n),v(x_n)).$

  This is achieved by defining an additional equation in `equations/definition.f90`. Then in the module `equations.f90` we modify the operators already defined by the subroutine `build_the_matrix` in the subroutine `equation_setup`. This highlights the modular nature of the code.

- ### Step 5:
  Include a second spatial domain $y$:
       $$\epsilon A_1(x,y) (\frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2}+\frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial y^2}) + C_1(x,y) u + F(u,v) = D_1(x,y), \quad  A_2(x,y) (\frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial x^2}+\frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial y^2}) + C_2(x,y) v + G(u,v) = D_2(x,y).$$ We have dropped the first derivatives here for simplicity. The new matrix is built using Kronecker products: for the inetersted reader we reccomend the book "Finite Difference Methods for Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations" by Randall J. LeVeque.

  Importantly, this is again achieved in a modular way: the new operators are constructed in `equations/2D.f90`. We built copies of the subroutines `equation_setup`, `build_the_matrix` and `non_linear_setup` and constructed the two-dimensional variants `equation_setup2D`, `build_the_matrix2D` and `non_linear_setup2D`. The logic of both sets of subroutines are similar - expect the new use of the Kroncker prodcut in `equation_setup2D`. As an extension it is possible to combine these subroutines - however, we decieded to improve readability by keeping them seperate.

  We modify the `solve_bvp.f90` module to print the solution into `BVP_2D.f90` and domains `BVP_2Dx.f90` and `BVP_2Dv.f90`.
    
- ### Step 6:
  Include the temporal deriative:
  $$\epsilon A_1(x,y) (\frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2}+\frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial y^2}) + C_1(x,y) u + F(u,v) = D_1(x,y) \frac{\partial u}{\partial t}, \quad  A_2(x,y) (\frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial x^2}+\frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial y^2}) + C_2(x,y) v + G(u,v) = D_2(x,y)\frac{\partial v}{\partial t}.$$

  The equation is now an initial boundary value problem (IVBP) and requires initial conditions to solve. These initial conditions are again given in `equations/definitions.f90` and discretised in either `equations.f90` or `equations/2D.f90` depending on the number of spatial dimensions.
The equation is solved in a diferent way to BVP: mathematical details will be given in [finite_differences.md](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE-Solving-Singular-PDEs-in-Fortran/blob/2-documentation-set-up/notebooks/8.finite_differences.md). We therefore have built a new module `temporal_marching.f90` which solves the equation and prints it into files dependent on the number of domains and equations specified in `settings.input`.
