# 06. Discretisation

In one spatial dimension $x$, consider the boundary value problem (BVP) with solution $u(x)$:

$$A(x) \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2}+B(x) \frac{\partial u}{\partial x}+C(x) u  = D(x), $$

where $A(x), B(x), C(x)$ and $D(x)$ are functions. This equation is supplemented with Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions.

We will solve this problem by discretising the equation using [finite differences](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite_difference_method) to turn the differential equation into an algebraic one with matrices.

This will involve inverting a matrix which we will achieve with the linear algebra package [LAPACK](https://www.netlib.org/lapack/).

Solving such equations are described in [this exemplar](https://imperialcollegelondon.github.io/ReCoDE_Diffusion_Code/1-numerics/), but we will list the important steps here:
  
  1. Preprocessing:
     * Using `reader.f90` we read in the specified input data from the file `settings.input`.
     * Using `domain.f90` we build the uniform computational grids for the problem.
     * With `equations/definitions.f90` we then specify the equations we are solving, with boundary conditions.
  2. Discretisation:
     * In `equations.f90`, specifically in the subroutine `build_the_matrix`, the equation is spatially discretised into discrete algebraic equations using finite differences.
     * Both the left and right hand side of the equation above need to be assembled, including all boundary conditions.
     * The equation is then transformed in a banded form. This is due to the fact that most of the matrix entries will be zero when finite differences are used. Again refer to this [exemplar](https://imperialcollegelondon.github.io/ReCoDE_Diffusion_Code/6-sparse-storage/) for more details.
  3. Solution: we then solve the problem in the module `solve_bvp.f90` by calling on the LAPACK linear solver defined in `linear_algebra.f90` with the subroutine `solver_banded_double_precision`.
  4. The solution is then outputted to a data file called `BVP.dat`.
