# 07. Discretisation

In one spatial dimension $x$, consider the boundary value problem (BVP) with solution $u(x)$: 
        $$A(x) \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2}+B(x) \frac{\partial u}{\partial x}+C(x) u  = D(x) $$
    Where $A(x), B(x), C(x)$ and $D(x)$ are functions. Supplemented with Dirichlet or Neumann bounary conditions.
We will solve this problem by discretising the equation using [finite differences](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite_difference_method) to turn the differential equation into an algebraic one with matrices.
    This will involve inverting a matrix which we will achieve with the linear algerba package [LAPACK](https://www.netlib.org/lapack/).
    Solving such equations are described in [this](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE_Diffusion_Code/blob/main/docs/1-numerics.md) examplar, but we will list the important steps here:
  
  1. Preproscessing:
     - Using `reader.f90` we read in the specified input data from a file called `settings.input`.
     - Using `domain.f90` we build the uniform computational grids for the problem.
     - With `equations/definitions.f90` we then specify the equations we are solving, with boundary conditions.
  2. Discretisation:
     - In `equations.f90`, specifically in the subroutine `build_the_matrix`, the eqution is spatially discretised into discrete algebraic equations using finite differences.
     - Both the left and right hand side of the equation above need to be asssembled, including all boundary conditions.
     - The equation is then transformed in a banded form. This is due to the fact that most of the matrix entrities will be zero when finite differeneces are used. Again refer to this [exemplar](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE_Diffusion_Code/blob/main/docs/6-sparse-storage.md) for more details.
  3. Solution:
     - We then solve the problem in the module `solve_bvp.f90` by calling on the LAPACK linear solver defined in `Newtons_method.f90`.
  4. The solution is then outputted to a data file called `BVP.dat`.
