# 1 - Introduction

## Mathematical Background

In applied mathematics, partial differential equations (PDEs) used to describe physical phenomena frequently incorporate a small parameter. 
The presence of this small parameter is critical, as setting it to zero can fundamentally alter the nature and behavior of the equations. 
A notable example is the Reynolds number in the Navier-Stokes equations, which balance viscous and momentum terms. When the Reynolds number is small, viscous forces predominate, allowing the momentum terms to be neglected. Conversely, when the Reynolds number is large, momentum forces dominate. However, it is not possible to completely neglect the viscous terms, as high Reynolds number flows near boundaries create very thin, highly viscous regions known as [boundary layers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boundary_layer).
Such equations are called [singularly perturbed equations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singular_perturbation).

In this exemplar we will build a PDE solver solves a particular class of singularly perturbed equations common in mathematical biology, reaction-diffusion systems.
These systems describe interactions between two competing agents, such as predator and prey or different chemical substances. 
When one agent diffuses more slowly than the other, the system represents a singularly perturbed equation. 
Reaction-diffusion systems are well-known for their ability to produce a wide variety of spatial patterns, such as stripes, spots, and waves including the stripes on zebras or giant pufferfish.

## General Model:

Let $$u := u(t,x,y) \quad \text{and}\quad v := v(t,x,y) $$ represent agent densities which vary in both time $t$ 
and spatial coordiantes $x$ and $y$. Reaction-diffusion systems can then be expressed in the form:
$$\frac{\partial u }{\partial t} = \epsilon \left(\frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2} + \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2} \right) + F(u,v),
\quad 
 \frac{\partial v }{\partial t}=  \left(\frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial x^2}+ \frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial y^2} \right) + G(u,v), $$
where $\epsilon >0$ is some small parameter and $F(u,v)$ and $G(u,v)$ are given functions. 

We will consider [Dirichlet boundary conditions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirichlet_boundary_condition) 
or [Neumann boundary conditions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neumann_boundary_condition) for the spatial boundaries 
and specified [initial conditions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Initial_condition#:~:text=In%20mathematics%20and%20particularly%20in,typically%20denoted%20t%20%3D%200) at an initial time. 


## Problem Complexities

This partial differential equation (PDE) is fairly complicated: 
  - ### Coupled Equations: 
    This is a system of coupled equations in both $u$ and $v$; the equations are linked together because the solution of one equation depends on the solutions of the others.
    This interdependence means that you can't solve each equation in isolation, which complicates the solution process.
  - ### Nonlinearity: 
    Typically, the functions $F(u,v)$ and $G(u,v)$ can be non-linear, *i.e*. of the form $u^2+uv$ or $\sin(u+v)$.
    Non-linear PDEs are much harder to solve both analytically and numerical. We will tackle non-linearities numerically with [Newton iteration](https://hplgit.github.io/num-methods-for-PDEs/doc/pub/nonlin/pdf/nonlin-4screen.pdf).
  - ### Spatial and Temporal Dependencies
    The variables $u$ and $v$ depend on both time $t$ and spacial coordianates $(x,y)$. 
    The equations are first order in time $\frac{\partial u }{\partial t}$: we can address this numerical with [temporal marching](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backward_Euler_method).
    It is also second order in space $\frac{\partial^2 u }{\partial x^2}+\frac{\partial^2 u }{\partial y^2}$: this [second order derivative](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_partial_differential_equation) means we must solve these equations at every point in space concurrently.
    This quantity measures *diffusion* or how $u$ changes around a point relative to the points neighbours.
    To solve this equation numerically we employ the use of finite differences. See [this](https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/ReCoDE_Diffusion_Code/blob/main/docs/1-numerics.md) previous exemplar for a introduction to finite differences.
- ### Small parameter $\epsilon$:
    As discussed above, the small parameter $\epsilon$ indicates that the diffusion of $u$ is much smaller than the diffusion of $v$.
    This is dealt numerically with non-uniform grids that are denser in regions where rapid changes occur and coarser elsewhere.
    The non-uniform grids are mapped to a uniform computational grid which are used to compute the finite differences.
- ### Boundary conditions and initial conditions:
  At a particular boundary $(x_0,y_0)$ of the domain of a problem then: 
    - A Dirichlet boundary condition is one of the form $$u(t,x_0,y_0) = L$$ where $L$ is a constant.
    - A Neumann boundary condition is one of the form $$\frac{\partial u}{\partial x} (t,x_0,y_0) = L$$ where $L$ is a constant.
    - An intial condition is of the form: $$u(t_0,x,y) = f(x,y)$$ where $f(x,y)$ is a given function.
  If we are solving for both $u$ and $v$ then conditions will be given for both.



    











  
