# 03-1. Solver Settings

In this section we will discuss the input file `solver/settings.input`. This file sets parameters for the solver and domain of the simulation.
This the file is read in by the subroutine `read_me` in the `reader.f90` module. The relevant inputs extracted from this file are then shared with the rest of the code.

We will refer to the equations:

$$\frac{\partial u }{\partial t} = \epsilon \left(\frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2} + \frac{\partial^2 u}{\partial x^2} \right) + F(u,v)\\
 \frac{\partial v }{\partial t}=  \left(\frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial x^2}+ \frac{\partial^2 v}{\partial y^2} \right) + G(u,v), $$
 

## Explanation of File Contents

This first section is:
```
Settings ________________
1           !!! Time_switch (time marching if 1)
1           !!! Non_Linear_switch (non linear if 1)
2           !!! Eqn_number
2           !!! Domain_number
```
 
 * `Time_switch` toggles the the solver between a BVP solver when set to 0 and a IBVP solver when set to 1. When we have a BVP, this is equivalent to setting the time derivatives $\frac{\partial u}{\partial t} = 1$ and $\frac{\partial v}{\partial t} = 1$.
   
 * `Non_Linear_switch` controls the Newton-iteration solver, disabling it when set to 0 and enabling it when set to 1. The equation that we solve when the `Non_Linear_switch` is 0 is linear, and so $F(u,v) = G(u,v) =0.$
   
 * `Eqn_number` sets how many equations to solve. If set to 1, we only solve for $u$. If set to 2, we solve for both $u$ and $v$.
   
 * `Domain_number` specifies the number of domains. If set to 1, we only solve over one domain $x$.  If set to 2, we only solve over one domain $x$ and $y$.

Domain sections:
```
!!! xdomain settings_____
30        !!! nx - size of x domain
0,5	  !!! xl, xr - start and end points of x domain
0,2.25    !!! x_stretch_on or off, grid stretch parameter (xhalf)

!!! ydomain settings_____
30        !!! ny - size of y domain
0,5       !!! yl, yr - start and end points of y domain
0,2.25    !!! y_stretch_on or off, grid stretch parameter (yhalf)

!!! temporal marching settings_____
1000              !!! nt - size of t domain
0.d0,10.d0        !!! tl, tr - start and end points of time domain
```
Here we set the sizes of the domains. 

  * `nx`, `ny` and `nt` set the number of points inside each domain.
    
  * `xl` and `xr` are the start and end of the $x$ domain respectively. This is repeated for $y$ and $t$.
    
  * For the spatial domains $x$ and $y$ we also include a grid stretch switch `x_stretch_on` and `y_stretch_on` When set to 0, then we have uniform domains. When set to 1, half the grid points have been clustered between `xl` and `xhalf` in a smooth manner. This is the same for $y$.

```
!!! general settings_____
4           !!! DiffOrder - order of finite differences scheme
1.d-6       !!! Newton_Error
2000        !!! Max_iter - max Newton iterations
```
   * `DiffOrder` sets the order of the finite differences. Can be 2 (second order), $3$ (fourth order interior and second order boundaries) or $4$ (fourth order).
     
   * `Newton_Error` sets the tolerance needed to achieve convergence in the non-linear Newton iteration at each step. A smaller number yields a more accurate result.
     
   * `Max_iter` sets the maximum number of iterations allowed for the non-liner Newton iteration. If we pass this number, convergence is not reached and the solver stops.
